in a wide- ranging speech to Parliament
the Turkish president rashab Ty erdogan
called for an immediate ceasefire and
proposed an International Conference to
reach a lasting peace ham Hamas is not a
terrorist organization but a group of
liberators and mujahid fighting to
protect their land and their citizens
well our correspondent rul s who has
covered tea extensively for us joins me
now in outdoor house Studio rasul are we
sensing here a shift in in
from erdogan today and and how's that
likely to go over with regional leaders
I wouldn't consider that as a shift
however we definitely can't see that now
it's tuning up so he's he's speaking up
because officially and legally turkey
has never uh recognize Hamas as a terror
group despite lots of pressure from the
Western countries from Israel to on
Turkey to put Hamas on a terrorist but
that has never been the case so so this
is not a new position that turkey is not
recog recognizing Hamas as a as a terror
group however the timing is delicate as
all the particularly the Western leaders
are now equalizing both Hamas and Isis
together so a leader of a regional
country Regional power coming up and
saying that Hamas is not a terror group
but a liberator that defending their
lands that are occupied by Israel is is
is quite times time sensitive and it's
quite remarkable in this context so and
but previously he will go even further
Mur and call Israel as a terror state
but now we can see that he's not
uttering such words so it means that
this is not a Rapture so he's not
burning up all the bridges he still
wants to keep the good relations with
Israel good relations with the west but
on the other hand by calling Hamas not
the terror group of the liberators is
actually indicating a kind of the the
the root causes of this crisis he said
that there is a context of this so there
is an ongoing occupation since decades
and what happened on October 7 is is not
a a is not the the beginning however is
a consequences of the Decades long
occupations and the wrongdoings so it's
not a rupture however it's quite
remarkable that after two weeks of
almost silent president ardan is coming
up as speaking that much on high willm
well speaking of of coming out and and
raising voices do you think that there's
more Unity emerging now in the region
especially as we're seeing this death
toll continue to rise I I think so look
it's like when we see today uan saying
that he's calling for an international
mechanism to be established and
particularly the the the important uh
Regional actors also to be present there
not only politically but militarily as
well and he says that turkey is ready to
contribute to that mechanism or to do
whatever is necessary politically and
militarily so what I understand from
that is is that he's talking about a
peacekeeping forces that is not just
going to be secured and conducted by by
the United Nations but a different
mechanism that the regional actors are
also involved so on the other hand the
Turkish foreign minister has been on a
regional tour he was in Iran yesterday
and then went to the UAE and today was
in Qatar he's trying to also promote a
regional front here so Eran is also
talking about that so as the western
front of the C the world is United
behind Israel now they're trying to to
to promote a regional position here that
they can put a kind kind of
counternarrative and also put a pressure
particularly on the US and Israel so yes
he's talking about an international
mechanism that has a deterrence that has
the political power and also the
military power as well whether that
could happen or not it's a different
issue however that's quite new well it's
clearly a plan in the works at least we
hope there's a plan in the works Russell
sder there our correspondent who's
covered to very extensively thank you
for your insights here thank